# Understanding Embeddings using Amazon Bedrock

Amazon Bedrock is a fully managed service that offers a choice of high-performing foundation models (FMs) from leading AI companies like AI21 Labs, Anthropic, Cohere, Meta, Mistral AI, Stability AI, and Amazon via a single API, along with a broad set of capabilities you need to build generative AI applications with security, privacy, and responsible AI. Using Amazon Bedrock, you can easily experiment with and evaluate top FMs for your use case, privately customize them with your data using techniques such as fine-tuning and Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), and build agents that execute tasks using your enterprise systems and data sources.

Embeddings are numerical representations of real-world objects that machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI) systems use to understand complex knowledge domains like humans do. As an example, computing algorithms understand that the difference between 2 and 3 is 1, indicating a close relationship between 2 and 3 as compared to 2 and 100. However, real-world data includes more complex relationships. For example, a bird-nest and a lion-den are analogous pairs, while day-night are opposite terms. Embeddings convert real-world objects into complex mathematical representations that capture inherent properties and relationships between real-world data. The entire process is automated, with AI systems self-creating embeddings during training and using them as needed to complete new tasks.

Embeddings enable deep-learning models to understand real-world data domains more effectively. They simplify how real-world data is represented while retaining the semantic and syntactic relationships. This allows machine learning algorithms to extract and process complex data types and enable innovative AI applications. The following sections describe some important factors. 
